living at depths of up to 5 000 feet
the hagfish is one of the strangest
creatures in the ocean
and there's plenty on the list the
goblin shark
sea spiders red-lipped batfish and even
people swimming during winter
it's freezing man get out although it
looks like an eel
this fish belongs to the agnetha species
that's
fish without jaws and the family also
includes lampreys
terrifying monsters with disc shaped
suction cup mouths
filled with spiraling rows of teeth
egg fish have two tongues four hearts
and no eyes or stomach
like something from another planet and
what sets them apart from
anything on this planet is that they
have a skull
but no spine they don't have bones
either
that unique spineless skull is made
entirely out of cartilage
the same stuff in your ears and nose
that's right
skateless with skin that seems to fit
over them like an oversized holiday
sweater
it'd be a mistake to think this frail
little creature would be an easy dinner
they've evolved to escape from other
fish like houdinis of the deep
and the trick is slime lots of it
when something tries to gobble them up
or gets just too
close for comfort tag fish release a
protein from the holes
lining their sides when this stuff meets
the surrounding water
it balloons dramatically as in ten
thousand times
the more water touches it the bigger
this goo ball gets
a teaspoon of egg fish slime can turn
into a bucket full in a second
it instantly clogs the gills of any fish
trying to chop down on our slimy friend
even sharks but hagfish have gills too
so why doesn't the slime block their own
easy peasy
this hagfish will simply tie itself into
a knot
and scrape the slime off its body
doesn't mean their slime comes without
inconveniences
sometimes it gets in the hagfish's tiny
nose
to get rid of it they make themselves
sneeze sort of
gesundheit this fish's homemade goo
is made of flexible strands that are
surprisingly strong
as in stronger than nylon imagine
falling into a pool of the stuff
you'd struggle to move your arms and
legs to swim it might feel like
rubber bands tying you up but you'd be
perfectly safe
as long as the stuff doesn't get in your
nose or throat in that case
you'd be as unfortunate as those guild
creatures trying to bite into the slimy
fish
and hey our own species is eyeballing it
for loads of potential uses
from parachutes to cars and even
clothing
forget about diving in a pool of this
goo you could be wearing a slime suit in
the future
but when it comes to landish creatures
the platypus
is just as weird this mammal has a duck
bill
a beaver tail webbed feet and lays eggs
like a lot of fish the platypus and its
relative the echidna
have no stomach but they don't need one
they store their food in their cheeks
until they surface
once they've eaten the food goes
straight to their gut
just when the platypus couldn't get any
stranger they also sweat
milk for their platypops when winter has
put
bears bats snakes and even myself into
hibernation
there's one animal that does things a
little differently
during the cold season the wood frog
lets itself freeze
sometimes for up to seven months like a
brown
popsicle they fill their body with a
syrupy unnatural anti-freeze
to stop crystals from forming and when
the right time comes
they can just thaw themselves out even
multiple times a season
these frogs will find a nice covered
area in the forest
and wait until spring comes once they're
thawed they'll hop away
like nothing happened at all when your
name's the boxer crab
you have to live up to it ding ding
round one
this little crab is super smart it has
sea anemones
living in its claws and these diy boxing
gloves pack a punch
carrying around these little tentacled
sea creatures helps this tiny crab
defend itself against
fish and anything bigger than it when
feeling disturbed
the crab starts swinging and its glove
starts stinging
the tentacles of sea anemones are
covered in stinging cells
that help the animal capture its lunch
yup that's no plant
it's a hungry beast it's a win-win
relationship
for helping the crab protect itself the
gloves get a fun ride around the ocean
floor
and free meals its other names don't
sound as tough
but i assure you the pom-pom or
cheerleader crab looks cute
but shouldn't be messed with if you're
afraid of spider webs
this is one to avoid darwin's bark
spider is an
orb weaver type that creates a jaw
droppingly large web
for a penny size biting the silk in its
web is 10 times stronger than kevlar
and double the strength of any other
spiders on the planet
and the webs themselves can be as big as
a king-sized bed
not that you'd want to sleep in one
their webbed bridges are even more
impressive
they can be over 80 feet long the
spiders build them across rivers to
catch
bugs flying over the water or you
rafting down the rapids
watch out and here i thought i spent too
much time on the web
gone to the beach on a hot sunny day
when you realize you're out of sunblock
hey just do what hippos do when they
sweat
they create their own sunscreen living
in the water for most of its life
a hippo skin must stay wet to keep
hydrated
when they do have to venture out of the
water something strange happens
the red or pink color we sometimes see
on hippos
are little beads of fluid that absorb
the sun's uv
and protect the skin from burning
they're also highly acidic to help stop
bacteria growing on the skin
hippos might look big and clumsy but
they could easily
outrun and outswim the best olympic
athletes out there
must be why the ancient greeks call them
hippopotamus
the river horse now when you're a plant
it's hard to defend yourself
but not for the acacia tree it has
built-in bodyguards
ants when a few of the leaves are
getting nibbled on
the vibrations alert the ant brigade to
head out and stop the trespasser
living in the hollow thorns of the
branches the acacia ants come out
and shock the hungry animal with their
wasp-like stinger
the tree is so grateful to the ants that
it feeds them
yummy nectar not only do the ant stop
animals from grazing too much
they also help improve the tree's health
by reducing the bacteria that would be
on the leaves
now never heard of a sea squirt i don't
recommend getting too close
unless you want water in your face the
sea squirt may
look like an underwater plant but it's
an animal more closely related to us
than a cockroach these squishy little
creatures are in an umbrella category
with vertebrates
like you me and anyone or anything else
with a fancy backbone
that big happy family is called the
chordates
starting as little tadpole like larvae
sea squirts wiggle around in the ocean
for a short time
until they find a nice bit of water to
call their own
since they're unable to feed themselves
drastic measures must be taken
and i mean drastic like oysters
barnacles and mussels
the sea squirt has a glue-like substance
that cements it to the first place it
lands
once they've picked their forever home
they need to start eating
the first thing to go is their own tail
then they absorb their gills
and even their brain no longer need the
ability to navigate the ocean
it's become unnecessary they're not
heartless though
the sea squirts ticker is very similar
to humans
it even looks a little like ours now
here's one you won't forget
lobsters crayfish and crabs have teeth
in their stomachs after they gulp
something down
the food in their stomach gets ground up
by large teeth
this is called gastric milling and it
helps the crustaceans digest it easier
one species of crab had to take it a
step further of course
the ghost crab uses these teeth not only
for eating
but also to growl by grinding their
tummy teeth when scared or struggling
with another crab
they're warning to get away well when
you don't have vocal cords
stomach growling will have to do they're
also the fastest type of crab on the
planet
they can move 100 body lengths per
second
that'd be like you running one and a
half football fields in the blink of an
eye
whoa look at that